_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: "About me"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

I am a second-year Computer Science PhD student at the University of Maryland, College Park (UMD), fortunately advised by [Prof. Hal Daumé III](http://users.umiacs.umd.edu/~hal/) and [Prof. Zubin Jelveh](https://zjelveh.github.io/), who care and foster conceptual creativity. My research interests include AI fairness, trustworthiness, natural language processing (NLP), machine learning (ML), and law. My currently most focused research direction is law-informed fairness, including but not limited to two broad questions:
1. How to identify the current stances and knowledge gaps of heterogeneous legal sources that regulate a. AI in general, and b. the fairness of AI-involved decision-making processes in particular?
2. How to design new concepts, technical experiments, and/or human studies to address those law-informed AI fairness knowledge gaps while minimizing disruptiveness to existing legal principles?

## Awards
1. DOJ/NIJ Graduate Research Fellowship 2023 ($166,500 over 3 years; Topic: [Operationalizing the Individual versus Group Fairness Dichotomy for Recidivism Risk Assessment: US Legal Challenges and Technical Proposals](https://nij.ojp.gov/funding/awards/15pnij-23-gg-01932-ress))
2. Dean’s Fellowship ($5000 over 2 years)

## Publications
1. **Tin Nguyen**, Jiannan Xu, Aayushi Roy, Hal Daumé III and Marine Carpuat. 
[Towards Conceptualization of “Fair Explanation”: Disparate Impacts of anti-Asian Hate Speech Explanations on Content Moderators](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.15055). EMNLP 2023. 
2. Navita Goyal, Connor Baumler, **Tin Nguyen** and Hal Daumé III. [The Impact of Explanations on Fairness in Human-AI Decision Making: Protected vs Proxy Features](https://chi-trait.github.io/papers/2023/CHI_TRAIT_2023_Paper_46.pdf). CHI TRAIT 2023 Workshop.

Commit message:

Update about.md - TRAILS funded proposal

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: "About me"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

I am a second-year Computer Science PhD student at the University of Maryland, College Park (UMD), fortunately advised by [Prof. Hal Daumé III](http://users.umiacs.umd.edu/~hal/) and [Prof. Zubin Jelveh](https://zjelveh.github.io/), who care and foster conceptual creativity. My research interests include AI fairness, trustworthiness, natural language processing (NLP), machine learning (ML), and law. My currently most focused research direction is law-informed fairness, including but not limited to two broad questions:
1. How to identify the current stances and knowledge gaps of heterogeneous legal sources that regulate a. AI in general, and b. the fairness of AI-involved decision-making processes in particular?
2. How to design new concepts, technical experiments, and/or human studies to address those law-informed AI fairness knowledge gaps while minimizing disruptiveness to existing legal principles?

## Funding and Awards
1. DOJ/NIJ Graduate Research Fellowship 2023 ($166,500 over 3 years; Topic: [Operationalizing the Individual versus Group Fairness Dichotomy for Recidivism Risk Assessment: US Legal Challenges and Technical Proposals](https://nij.ojp.gov/funding/awards/15pnij-23-gg-01932-ress))
2. Funded Proposal: Effort-aware Fairness (approx. $78,500 for one year; project conceptualized and proposal drafted by me, then refined and submitted with Donald Braman, Furong Huang and my PhD Advisors for TRAILS funding)
3. Dean’s Fellowship ($5000 over 2 years)

## Publications
1. **Tin Nguyen**, Jiannan Xu, Aayushi Roy, Hal Daumé III and Marine Carpuat. 
[Towards Conceptualization of “Fair Explanation”: Disparate Impacts of anti-Asian Hate Speech Explanations on Content Moderators](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.15055). EMNLP 2023. 
2. Navita Goyal, Connor Baumler, **Tin Nguyen** and Hal Daumé III. [The Impact of Explanations on Fairness in Human-AI Decision Making: Protected vs Proxy Features](https://chi-trait.github.io/papers/2023/CHI_TRAIT_2023_Paper_46.pdf). CHI TRAIT 2023 Workshop.
